docs/source/intro.rst, before:

Introduction
============

OpenStudio-HPXML allows running residential EnergyPlus simulations using an `HPXML file <https://hpxml.nrel.gov/>`_ for the building description.
It is intended to be used by user interfaces or other automated software workflows that automatically produce the HPXML file.
A `Schematron <http://schematron.com/>`_ document for the EnergyPlus use case is used to validate that the appropriate HPXML inputs are provided to run EnergyPlus.

Capabilities
------------

OpenStudio-HPXML capabilities include:

- Modeling individual dwelling units or whole multifamily buildings; see :ref:`hpxmlbuilding` for more information
- Modeling a wide range of building technologies
- HVAC design load calculations and equipment autosizing
- Occupancy schedules (smooth or stochastic)
- Utility bill calculations (flat, tiered, time-of-use, real-time pricing, etc.)
- Emissions calculations (CO2e, etc.)
- Annual and timeseries outputs (energy, loads, temperatures, etc.)
- Optional HPXML inputs with transparent defaults
- Schematron and XSD Schema input validation

Accuracy vs Speed
-----------------

The EnergyPlus simulation engine is like a Swiss army knife.
There are often multiple models available for the same building technology with varying trade-offs between accuracy and speed.
This workflow standardizes the use of EnergyPlus (e.g., the choice of models appropriate for residential buildings) to provide a fast and easy to use solution.

The workflow is continuously being evaluated for ways to reduce runtime without significant impact on accuracy.
End-to-end simulations typically run in 3-10 seconds, depending on complexity, computer platform and speed, etc.

There are additional ways that software developers using this workflow can reduce runtime:

- Run on Linux/Mac platform, which is significantly faster than Windows.
- Run on computing environments with 1) fast CPUs, 2) sufficient memory, and 3) enough processors to allow all simulations to run in parallel.
- Limit requests for timeseries output (e.g., ``--hourly``, ``--daily``, ``--timestep`` arguments) and limit the number of output variables requested.
- Avoid using the ``--add-component-loads`` argument if heating/cooling component loads are not of interest.
- Use the ``--skip-validation`` argument if the HPXML input file has already been validated against the Schema & Schematron documents.

.. _openstudio_measures:

OpenStudio Measures
-------------------

You can read about OpenStudio measures `here <http://nrel.github.io/OpenStudio-user-documentation/getting_started/about_measures/>`_.
The OpenStudio measures used by the workflow are:

#. ``BuildResidentialHPXML``: A measure that generates an HPXML file from a set of building description inputs (including, e.g., simplified geometry inputs).
#. ``BuildResidentialScheduleFile``: A measure that generates a CSV of detailed schedules (e.g., stochastic occupancy) for use in the simulation.
#. ``HPXMLtoOpenStudio``: A measure that translates an HPXML file to an OpenStudio model.
#. ``ReportSimulationOutput``: A reporting measure that generates a variety of simulation-based annual/timeseries outputs in CSV/JSON/MessagePack format.
#. ``ReportUtilityBills``: A reporting measure that generates utility bill outputs in CSV/JSON/MessagePack format.

Geometry
--------

HPXML files currently do not include detailed 3D geometry (e.g., surface vertices or positions of surfaces relative to each other).
Rather, surfaces are defined by area and orientation.
However, HPXML can still handle the most important aspect of geometry -- shading of solar radiation.
Geometry inputs that affect solar shading include :ref:`overhangs` and :ref:`neighbor_buildings`.

Support for 3D geometry may be added to HPXML and OpenStudio-HPXML in the future.

More detail is provided below on how geometry is handled in the :ref:`geometry_buildreshpxml_measure` and :ref:`geometry_hpxmltoopenstudio_measure`.

.. _geometry_buildreshpxml_measure:

BuildResidentialHPXML measure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``BuildResidentialHPXML`` measure generates an HPXML file with surfaces using the following steps:

#. Collect simplified geometry inputs (e.g., conditioned floor area, number of floors above grade, aspect ratio, garage width/protrusion).
#. Create a 3D closed-form geometry in an OpenStudio model.
#. Map OpenStudio surfaces to HPXML surfaces using surface types, boundary conditions, areas, orientations, etc. Like surfaces are collapsed into a single surface with aggregate surface area.

For example, the image below is a 3D representation of a single-family detached home.

.. image:: images/geometry_3d.png
   :align: center

And a corresponding ``Wall`` surface in the HPXML file will look like:

.. code-block:: XML

  <Wall>
    <SystemIdentifier id='Wall1'/>
    <ExteriorAdjacentTo>outside</ExteriorAdjacentTo>
    <InteriorAdjacentTo>conditioned space</InteriorAdjacentTo>
    <WallType>
      <WoodStud/>
    </WallType>
    <Area>360.0</Area>
    <Orientation>north</Orientation>
    <Insulation>
      <SystemIdentifier id='Wall1Insulation'/>
      <AssemblyEffectiveRValue>23.0</AssemblyEffectiveRValue>
    </Insulation>
  </Wall>
  
.. _geometry_hpxmltoopenstudio_measure:

HPXMLtoOpenStudio measure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``HPXMLtoOpenStudio`` measure translates :ref:`enclosure` elements to an OpenStudio Model.
The image below shows the result of translating an HPXML file corresponding to the above single-family detached example.

.. image:: images/geometry_exploded.png
   :align: center

Surfaces have the correct area/orientation for the heat transfer calculations (but are spread out such that they do not shade one another).

.. note::

  It is not possible for the ``HPXMLtoOpenStudio`` measure to automatically construct a 3D closed-form geometry from an HPXML file since the shape of the building (rectangular, L-shaped, etc.) is unknown.

License
-------

This project is available under a BSD-3-like license, which is a free, open-source, and permissive license. For more information, check out the `license file <https://github.com/NREL/OpenStudio-HPXML/blob/master/LICENSE.md>`_.

Commit message:

Changed my mind... simple solution to show how shading surfaces are handled.

docs/source/intro.rst, after:

Introduction
============

OpenStudio-HPXML allows running residential EnergyPlus simulations using an `HPXML file <https://hpxml.nrel.gov/>`_ for the building description.
It is intended to be used by user interfaces or other automated software workflows that automatically produce the HPXML file.
A `Schematron <http://schematron.com/>`_ document for the EnergyPlus use case is used to validate that the appropriate HPXML inputs are provided to run EnergyPlus.

Capabilities
------------

OpenStudio-HPXML capabilities include:

- Modeling individual dwelling units or whole multifamily buildings; see :ref:`hpxmlbuilding` for more information
- Modeling a wide range of building technologies
- HVAC design load calculations and equipment autosizing
- Occupancy schedules (smooth or stochastic)
- Utility bill calculations (flat, tiered, time-of-use, real-time pricing, etc.)
- Emissions calculations (CO2e, etc.)
- Annual and timeseries outputs (energy, loads, temperatures, etc.)
- Optional HPXML inputs with transparent defaults
- Schematron and XSD Schema input validation

Accuracy vs Speed
-----------------

The EnergyPlus simulation engine is like a Swiss army knife.
There are often multiple models available for the same building technology with varying trade-offs between accuracy and speed.
This workflow standardizes the use of EnergyPlus (e.g., the choice of models appropriate for residential buildings) to provide a fast and easy to use solution.

The workflow is continuously being evaluated for ways to reduce runtime without significant impact on accuracy.
End-to-end simulations typically run in 3-10 seconds, depending on complexity, computer platform and speed, etc.

There are additional ways that software developers using this workflow can reduce runtime:

- Run on Linux/Mac platform, which is significantly faster than Windows.
- Run on computing environments with 1) fast CPUs, 2) sufficient memory, and 3) enough processors to allow all simulations to run in parallel.
- Limit requests for timeseries output (e.g., ``--hourly``, ``--daily``, ``--timestep`` arguments) and limit the number of output variables requested.
- Avoid using the ``--add-component-loads`` argument if heating/cooling component loads are not of interest.
- Use the ``--skip-validation`` argument if the HPXML input file has already been validated against the Schema & Schematron documents.

.. _openstudio_measures:

OpenStudio Measures
-------------------

You can read about OpenStudio measures `here <http://nrel.github.io/OpenStudio-user-documentation/getting_started/about_measures/>`_.
The OpenStudio measures used by the workflow are:

#. ``BuildResidentialHPXML``: A measure that generates an HPXML file from a set of building description inputs (including, e.g., simplified geometry inputs).
#. ``BuildResidentialScheduleFile``: A measure that generates a CSV of detailed schedules (e.g., stochastic occupancy) for use in the simulation.
#. ``HPXMLtoOpenStudio``: A measure that translates an HPXML file to an OpenStudio model.
#. ``ReportSimulationOutput``: A reporting measure that generates a variety of simulation-based annual/timeseries outputs in CSV/JSON/MessagePack format.
#. ``ReportUtilityBills``: A reporting measure that generates utility bill outputs in CSV/JSON/MessagePack format.

Geometry
--------

HPXML files currently do not include detailed 3D geometry (e.g., surface vertices or positions of surfaces relative to each other).
Rather, surfaces are defined by area and orientation.
However, HPXML can still handle the most important aspect of geometry -- shading of solar radiation.
Geometry inputs that affect solar shading include :ref:`overhangs` and :ref:`neighbor_buildings`.

Support for 3D geometry may be added to HPXML and OpenStudio-HPXML in the future.

More detail is provided below on how geometry is handled in the :ref:`geometry_buildreshpxml_measure` and :ref:`geometry_hpxmltoopenstudio_measure`.

.. _geometry_buildreshpxml_measure:

BuildResidentialHPXML measure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``BuildResidentialHPXML`` measure generates an HPXML file with surfaces using the following steps:

#. Collect simplified geometry inputs (e.g., conditioned floor area, number of floors above grade, aspect ratio, garage width/protrusion).
#. Create a 3D closed-form geometry in an OpenStudio model.
#. Map OpenStudio surfaces to HPXML surfaces using surface types, boundary conditions, areas, orientations, etc. Like surfaces are collapsed into a single surface with aggregate surface area.

For example, the image below is a 3D representation of a single-family detached home.

.. image:: images/geometry_3d.png
   :align: center

And a corresponding ``Wall`` surface in the HPXML file will look like:

.. code-block:: XML

  <Wall>
    <SystemIdentifier id='Wall1'/>
    <ExteriorAdjacentTo>outside</ExteriorAdjacentTo>
    <InteriorAdjacentTo>conditioned space</InteriorAdjacentTo>
    <WallType>
      <WoodStud/>
    </WallType>
    <Area>360.0</Area>
    <Orientation>north</Orientation>
    <Insulation>
      <SystemIdentifier id='Wall1Insulation'/>
      <AssemblyEffectiveRValue>23.0</AssemblyEffectiveRValue>
    </Insulation>
  </Wall>
  
.. _geometry_hpxmltoopenstudio_measure:

HPXMLtoOpenStudio measure
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``HPXMLtoOpenStudio`` measure translates :ref:`enclosure` elements to an OpenStudio Model.
The image below shows the result of translating an HPXML file corresponding to the above single-family detached example, including neighboring buildings of the same height to the left/right.

.. image:: images/geometry_exploded.png
   :align: center

Surfaces are shown with the correct area/orientation for heat transfer calculations (but are spread out such that they do not shade one another).
Shading surfaces, shown in purple, represent neighboring buildings that substantially shade the windows facing left/right.

.. note::

  It is not possible for the ``HPXMLtoOpenStudio`` measure to automatically construct a 3D closed-form geometry from an HPXML file since the shape of the building (rectangular, L-shaped, etc.) is unknown.

License
-------

This project is available under a BSD-3-like license, which is a free, open-source, and permissive license. For more information, check out the `license file <https://github.com/NREL/OpenStudio-HPXML/blob/master/LICENSE.md>`_.
